---
layout: post
title: "quotes"
description: ""
category: quote
tags: []
---
I've been watching Game of Thrones, and this is a mismatched group of things that the finale reminded me of.  
<br/>
<hr>
<br/>
"It's a big and beautiful world. Most uf us die in the same corner where we were born, and never get to see any of it. I don't want to be most of us..."   
<cite>	Oberyn "The Viper" Martell</cite>   
<br/>



"Forgive others not because they deserve forgiveness, but because you deserve peace"   

<br/>
Yet each man kills the things he loves,
 
 
By each let this be heard, 
 
Some do it with a bitter look, 
 
Some with a flattering word, 
 
 The coward does it with a kiss,
 
 The brave man with a sword!
 
 Some kill their love when they are young
 
 And some when they are old: 
 
 Some strangle with the hands of Lust,  
 
 Some with the hands of Gold.  

<br/>


 The kindest use a knife, beacuse
 
 The dead so soon grow cold.
 
 Some love too little, some too long,

  Some sell, and others buy.  
  
 Some do the deed with many tears,
 
 And some without a sigh:
 
 For each man kills the thing he loves,
 
 Yet each man does not die.
 
 <cite> Oscar Wilde  </cite>  

<br/>
 "Betrayal is the only truth that sticks"

<cite>Arthur Miller</cite>    


<br/>

"It is more shameful to distrust our friends than to be decieved by them." 

<cite>Confucius</cite>  

<br/>

"So we beat on, boats against the current,

Borne back ceaselessly into the past."  

<cite>F. Scott Fitzgerald</cite>  

<br/>

 "I don't want to repeat my innocence, 

I want the pleasure of losing it again"

<cite>F. Scott Fitzgerald</cite>  


<br/>

"I used to advertise my loyalty and I don't believe there is a signle person I love that I didn't eventually betray." 

<cite>Camus</cite>
