---
layout:       post
title:       "Meta"
description: ""
category: "blog post"
tags: [meta, self]
---
Over the course of this blog project I have arrived at a basic understanding of the Linux terminal as well as Git and Heroku. I have also gotten a better look at the next-generation of HTML/CSS type languages, with slim and scss, both of which I hope to dive into further at some point as I root around and try to pretty up the site.  So far, no substantive new work has been done on my part, I've just gotten myself acclimated to how this blogging platform works, and the ins and outs, what variable gets passed to where and so on.  That has been quite enlightening in and of itself, as it allows me to see examples of code at work.  I really think the increased use of variables in place of hard-coded parameters will make this site really easy to build upon and customize in the future.  Super-slick.  I have just recently become familar with the Rake process as a faster way of creating new posts.  Previously I had been copying old files and renaming the filename and header *(the shame!)* My latest foray is in the use of the text editor known as Vim.

So here I am writing my first post in Vim. So far, I am able to edit text, save it, and delete things without refering to a helpsheet.  At this point it feels much more cumbersome, but in the end I'm hoping the payoff will be worth it. While I'm at it, I will need to figure out how to get Vim to recognize the markdown extention, for the moment it is supported in the Nitrous.io IDE, and I could use that to provide better contextual formatting. 

So far I haven't done this, and as a result, all the text that appears in between any given apostrophe is highlighted in red, and the headlines and such do not appear any more bold.  The good part of this is while it is spartan, the Markup syntax manages to keep things quite readable by using things like asterisks and underlines to demarcate an emphasized term.  The lack of CSS tags and such is very helpful. Also, Vim automatically breaks lines whereas the native editor does not. I have to scroll forever and ever out to the right to see the paragraph I am currently typing if I am doing so in the IDE, which makes sentence revision difficult.  In Vim, I have everything in front of me at once.  And the editing tools are nice, for what little I know of how to use them.

Sometimes I wonder what the point is. I assume that programming skills will help me at some point in the future, but I am having trouble wrapping my head around all the various pieces that I will need to have fall into place before I can dedicate myself to a kind of job that involves these things, nevermind the fact that I'm not set on one path in particular, which would determine what languages and concepts require more emphasis.

One part of me thinks that this work won't cut it unless I have the background a CS degree can provide, another wonders if being self-taught is the true way forward, givent that there are so many free materials out there, and work isn't necessarily site-specific.  As far as learning materials go, Coursera is always an option, but I wonder how far it will take me. It seems to be a decent start, and there are more in-depth materials around as well, but the question really becomes one of drive, specialization, barriers-to-entry, and sunk cost &emdash; as fallacious as that last one may be.

Ultimately, I think the altrust in me is winning over and pulling me in another, semi-related direction.  It seems most likely that I will continue with this project more as a means to an end, rather than a will-o-the-wisp, in terms of how the site is developed and in terms of what content is created in the future. Well, it may be too soon to tell for that last point, I'm kinda liking the idea of having a little creative outlet. In any case, I want to play a part in doing good for humanity &emdash; by doing what I can to develop energy, water and food systems that make lasting positive change on our people and planet. 

It won't be easy. I &emdash; my sloth is my own worst enemy. My greatest fear:  I lose my drive, and watch as the slowly-unfolding tragedy of  missed opportunities serve as a metronome to an insipid life. 

The true trick is conquering my own adversity to discomfort, uncertainty, and sustained, directed output.  I feel I fight a losing battle every day, to beat my own fear of the future, in order that I may put my nose to the grindstone and become useful. It's that, or stay a slob.  I know it's a battle that will never be won, but it is one worth fighting, and every time I stop to rest I feel like I am inexorably pulled to an ignominous death, away from a life worthy of merit.  Well, back to it then, I guess, I'm too lazy to go back through and make sure each sentence has at least two spaces as separation (I usually use one), so I may try to see how to use grep to modify this for me.  Things such as a spellchecker will have to be added later as well.  


