---
layout: post
title: "Gomorrah"
description: "Book Review"
category: "blog post"
tags: [books, reveiew]
---
So I just read and finished a book from my "to-do" list yesterday: Gomorrah _(Gomorra in Itallian and Spanish)_ by investigative reporter cum philosopher Roberto Saviano.  The book is nonfiction, but burns with an intensity few books, fiction or nonfiction, have ever dared claim.  And let me be the first to say that I'm not someone who's easily interested by the hardboiled crime novels, either.   

Saviano's most famous work to date, and one that forced him into police protection with round-the-clock bodyguard assigned him _and_  earned him a public shaming from none other than Silvio 'bunga-bunga' Berlusconi, deals with the organizational, empresarial, and criminal exploits of a loosely organized group of criminal familes in the Campania region, belonging to various "clans" and falling under the umbrella term "Camorrense" or, in their own idiom, members of _"O sistema"_ &mdash; _the system_.   

The bilical namesake of the book is no accident; apart from the play on words with the Camorra syndicate, Naples is one of the most crime-ridden regions of the world, and home to disparate industries with heavy Camorra ties which at first glance seem to bear no common thread.  Drugs, arms, dairy, construction, toxic waste, and even the most expensive bespoke garments worn by celebrities and supermodels all form part of the portfolio in the Camorra orbit. Saviano uses a number of vignettes to give the reader a taste of this strange world, where all is permissible in search of power, in search of profit. 

Ultimately, the book is a desolate one.  There is no redemption for those who will grow up in the Terra Nova projcets, only the prospect of killing, dealing and eventually becoming a boss whose regime of fear gives one a life of unimaginable wealth, until jail or death takes hold.  Towns with no hope.  Fields irreversibly poisoned by heavy metals, PCB's, serious carcinogens that end up in the milk and poison the land.  Empty shells of mansions, once inhabited by a now-incarcerated or dead boss, a homage to a life more based in fantasy than reality: Scarface's mansion, hidden behind high walls of concrete, in the slums of Italy. They get theirs, and throw their own to the dogs.  This is the most pure form of capitalism, unbridled by the concerns of regulation, ethics, or anything else that would slow the machine. It does not sleep, and it's closer to all of us than we ever knew. 
